More information on build from source using meson (#39129)
sagemath/sage: src/doc/en/installation/meson.rst

    This means that any Sage-the-distribution commands such as ``sage -i`` 
    will not work.

.. NOTE::

>     By default, ``ninja`` will automatically determine the number of jobs to
>     run in parallel based on the number of CPU available. This can be adjusted
>     by passing ``--config-settings=compile-args=-jN`` to ``pip install``,
>     which will pass ``-jN`` to ``ninja``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    By default, Meson will automatically determine the number of jobs to
    run in parallel based on the number of CPU available. This can be adjusted
    by passing ``--config-settings=compile-args=-jN`` to ``pip install``.
```

That ninja is used behind the scenes is, at this general level, an "implementation detail" I would say.

Author: But the problem is if I understood correctly `compile-args` is passed to ninja directly (instead of to meson), so the user need to know that to know which flags are available. Need double check. (I checked this by passing `--config-settings=compile-args=--help`.)

Reviewer: I'm fine with adding more details (and eg mentioning the nice trick using `--help`) further below in the background section. This initial section, however, is designed for average developers that don't want to deep-dive into meson (and thus may not even know that meson uses ninja under the hood).

    ``--verbose`` can be passed to ``pip install``, then the meson commands
    internally used by pip will be printed out.

Background information
======================

Under the hood, pip invokes meson to configure and build the project.
We can also use meson directly as follows.

> ``meson compile`` is much faster than ``pip install``,

Reviewer: Can you explain why someone would need to run multiple times `pip install`? This normally should be a one-time thing.

Maybe add a disclaimer saying that using meson directly can be advantageous in certain cases, e.g. if you want to work on the meson build files.

(Background: The standard setting should be `pip install -e .` - and that's all for almost everyone. If there are issues with this installation method, then they should be fixed.)

Author: As in if you modify the `.pyx` file you need some way to recompile… but I realize the editable loader automatically recompiles if needed. Okay that can be mentioned in the documentation.

(for the original question: I use meson as a replacement of monolithic build system for development nowadays. It's faster because it eliminates the need of recompiling dependent packages on large updates, plus `make` is just slow when only a small number of files changed for some reason.)

Reviewer: Thanks for the feedback. Good to hear that meson is already stable enough to serve normal developer needs (and that this is not just my personal impression ;-)). Will write an advertisement post on the mailing list then.
